packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/conversational-design/designing-conversations/acknowledging-users.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Acknowledging users
---
# Acknowledging users 
## Overview 

In conversations, humans like to be acknowledged to shows the other person is listening and understands the situation. When a chatbot acknowledges user input, it prompts users to continue interacting, boosts the overall user experience, and makes interactions more authentic. 
## Examples 

![Acknowledging users example 1](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4329&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4) 

![Acknowledging users example 2](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4401&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

![Acknowledging users example 3](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4404&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

In all these examples, the chatbot acknowledges the input and then continues with its response, building user confidence that the chatbot understood their query correctly. 

![Acknowledging users example 4](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4407&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

Here, although there may be some lag time between the query and the response, the chatbot acknowledges the request and then signals they are working on the task. 

## Dos and Don’ts

- Do use discourse markers to acknowledge users (see grammar section)  
-	Do use interim acknowledgments if the query response takes time to load  
-	Do read out dialogs to test if any acknowledgments are naturally missing  
-	Don’t forget to balance efficiency with authenticity

Commit message:

Intro sentences, overview pages and adaptions

packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/conversational-design/designing-conversations/acknowledging-users.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Acknowledging users
title: Acknowledging users
hide_table_of_contents: false
doc-type: 'component'
component-tabs: ['']
no_single_tab: true
description: "In conversations, humans like to be acknowledged to shows the other person is listening and understands the situation. When a chatbot acknowledges user input, it prompts users to continue interacting, boosts the overall user experience, and makes interactions more authentic."
---

# 

## Examples 

![Acknowledging users example 1](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4329&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4) 

![Acknowledging users example 2](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4401&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

![Acknowledging users example 3](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4404&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

In all these examples, the chatbot acknowledges the input and then continues with its response, building user confidence that the chatbot understood their query correctly. 

![Acknowledging users example 4](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4407&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

Here, although there may be some lag time between the query and the response, the chatbot acknowledges the request and then signals they are working on the task. 

## Dos and Don’ts

- Do use discourse markers to acknowledge users (see grammar section)  
-	Do use interim acknowledgments if the query response takes time to load  
-	Do read out dialogs to test if any acknowledgments are naturally missing  
-	Don’t forget to balance efficiency with authenticity
