packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/conversational-design/designing-conversations/greeting-users.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Greeting users
---
# Greeting users 
## Overview 

Greeting users is a key communicative function as this introduces your chatbot to your users, establishes its voice, and can be used to clarify your chatbot’s abilities and constraints. 
## Examples

![Greeting users with a simple introduction](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4327&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

Here the chatbot uses “Hello” instead of “Hi” or another greeting to establish a more professional tone. It also uses contractions (I’m instead of I am) to show that, although it’s a professional industrial chatbot, they’re not overly formal. The greeting then ends with a clear and common prompt for the user. 

![Greeting users with an extended introduction](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4410&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4) 

In this example, the greeting adds some information about its use case to set user expectations and limit their queries.

![Greeting users with extended use case introduction](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4412&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4) 

This example goes even further to establish what it can do and how it can help. It isn’t too lengthy, it’s not a monologue or a list of points that would overwhelm users and perfectly narrows down its abilities. 

![Greeting users with an informal introduction](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4414&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

This chatbot is less formal, more conversational and would be found within more generic chatbots. We do not recommend this style of greeting for our industrial applications that are embedded in working environments that are often demanding and dangerous. 

## Dos and Don’ts

- Do keep your greeting short and simple  
-	Do check every word matches your brand  
-	Don’t add a list of bullet points explaining what the chatbot can do   
-	Don’t use slang or idiomatic language in your greeting

Commit message:

Intro sentences, overview pages and adaptions

packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/conversational-design/designing-conversations/greeting-users.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Greeting users
title: Greeting users
hide_table_of_contents: false
doc-type: 'component'
component-tabs: ['']
no_single_tab: true
description: "Greeting users is a key communicative function as this introduces your chatbot to your users, establishes its voice, and can be used to clarify your chatbot’s abilities and constraints."
---

# 

## Examples

![Greeting users with a simple introduction](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4327&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

Here the chatbot uses “Hello” instead of “Hi” or another greeting to establish a more professional tone. It also uses contractions (I’m instead of I am) to show that, although it’s a professional industrial chatbot, they’re not overly formal. The greeting then ends with a clear and common prompt for the user. 

![Greeting users with an extended introduction](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4410&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4) 

In this example, the greeting adds some information about its use case to set user expectations and limit their queries.

![Greeting users with extended use case introduction](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4412&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4) 

This example goes even further to establish what it can do and how it can help. It isn’t too lengthy, it’s not a monologue or a list of points that would overwhelm users and perfectly narrows down its abilities. 

![Greeting users with an informal introduction](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3218-4414&t=etx1DcSbA7VDx5xD-4)

This chatbot is less formal, more conversational and would be found within more generic chatbots. We do not recommend this style of greeting for our industrial applications that are embedded in working environments that are often demanding and dangerous. 

## Dos and Don’ts

- Do keep your greeting short and simple  
-	Do check every word matches your brand  
-	Don’t add a list of bullet points explaining what the chatbot can do   
-	Don’t use slang or idiomatic language in your greeting
