packages/documentation/docs/controls/charts/3d.md, before:

import DocsTabs from '@site/src/components/DocsTabs';
import Playground from '@site/src/components/PlaygroundV3';

# 3D-Charting

3D Charts are a powerful way to visualize data in three dimensions. They provide a more immersive and interactive experience compared to traditional 2D charts. We typically use 3D charts to represent complex data sets or to visualize data in a more engaging way.

The `echarts-gl` package extends ECharts to support 3D visualizations, enabling you to create immersive and interactive charts.
With this package, you can design a variety of 3D charts, including:

- 3D scatter plots
- 3D bar charts
- 3D surface plots

<Playground
height="40rem"
name="echarts-special-3d"
noMargin
examplesByName>
</Playground>

## Installation

To install the `echarts-gl` package, run the following command:

```sh
npm install --save @siemens/ix-echarts
```

## Import

To use 3D charts, import the `echarts-gl` package in your project:

```typescript
import 'echarts-gl';
```

## Dos and Don'ts

- Do use appropriate data
- Do ensure that 3D charts are suitable for the presented data, they are most effective when additional dimensions are needed
- Don’t use 3D charts for simple data that can be effectively represented with 2D charts
- Don’t overuse 3D charts, they can make the data harder to interpret

Commit message:

docs:charts_review_updated
Here are all the echart content. Please note that I have removed a lot of the repetition so please talk to me if we need some alternative content. Also please no more oxford comma.

packages/documentation/docs/controls/charts/3d.md, after:

import DocsTabs from '@site/src/components/DocsTabs';
import Playground from '@site/src/components/PlaygroundV3';

# 3D charts

3D charts are a powerful way to visualize data in three dimensions. They provide a more immersive and interactive experience compared to traditional 2D charts. We typically use 3D charts to represent complex data sets or to visualize data in a more engaging way.

The `echarts-gl` package extends ECharts to support 3D visualizations. With this package, you can design a variety of 3D charts, including:

- 3D scatter plots
- 3D bar charts
- 3D surface plots

<Playground
height="40rem"
name="echarts-special-3d"
noMargin
examplesByName>
</Playground>

## Installation

To install the `echarts-gl` package, run the following command:

```sh
npm install --save @siemens/ix-echarts
```

## Import

To use 3D charts, import the `echarts-gl` package into your project:

```typescript
import 'echarts-gl';
```

## Dos and Don'ts

- Do use with data that's best seen and interpreted in  multiple dimensions
- Don’t use 3D charts for simple data that can be effectively represented with 2D charts
- Don’t overuse 3D charts as they can make the data harder to interpret
