packages/documentation/docs/icons/developing-with-icons.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Developing with icons
title: Developing with icons
hide_table_of_contents: false
doc-type: 'banner'
component-tabs: ['']
no_single_tab: true
description: 'The integration of icons into the code varies by framework. To accommodate the diverse range of potential use cases, external icons can be integrated in addition to the existing icon set.'
---

import Icons from '@site/src/components/IconsPreview';
import AddIconsPlayground from '@site/docs/autogenerated/playground/add-icons.mdx';

# Usage

## Angular

Provide all iX icons as asset folder via `angular.json`.

```json
"assets": [
  "src/favicon.ico",
  "src/assets",
  {
  "glob": "**/*.svg",
  "input": "node_modules/@siemens/ix-icons/svg",
  "output": "./svg"
  }
],
```

It is also possible to import individual icons without an asset folder via [addIcons](#reference-icons-by-name).

Then you can reference iX icons by name anywhere in your application.

```html
<ix-icon name="star" size="16"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="24"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="32"></ix-icon>
```

## Web components

```html
<ix-icon name="star" size="16"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="24"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="32"></ix-icon>
```

## React

```tsx
import { iconStar } from '@siemens/ix-icons/icons';

<IxIcon name={iconStar} size="16"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon name={iconStar} size="24"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon name={iconStar} size="32"></IxIcon>
```

## Vue

```tsx
import { iconStar } from '@siemens/ix-icons/icons';

<IxIcon :name="iconStar" size="16"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon :name="iconStar" size="24"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon :name="iconStar" size="32"></IxIcon>
```

## Reference icons by name

Although referencing icons by name (e.g. `<ix-icon name="star"><ix-icon>`) is still also possible, simply import all icons you want to display in your application via the `addIcons` method.

<AddIconsPlayground />

# Integrate external icons

## Technical requirements

- Supported icon format is SVG
- Each icon is a single SVG file, Sprites are not supported yet
- The icon has a size of 512✕512 (width, height and viewBox)
- All color information within the SVG will be ignored
- Remove any title attributes (`<title> ... </title>`) to make sure no unintentional tooltips appear on the icon
- For visual and formal requirements see guidelines tab above

```tsx
  <ix-icon name="./assets/my-icon.svg"></ix-icon>
  <ix-icon name="https://my.example.cdn.address/assets/my-icon.svg"></ix-icon>
```

## Internal SVG structure

The provided SVG icons are graphic resources whose code is mostly generated by design applications such as Figma, Sketch or Adobe Illustrator. The tools use different export routines, which can also change over time. We therefore cannot guarantee that the internal structure of an SVG will be preserved after updates – even if the icons remain visually the same.

Commit message:

docs(icons): refactor icon selection (#1844)

packages/documentation/docs/icons/developing-with-icons.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Developing with icons
title: Developing with icons
hide_table_of_contents: false
doc-type: 'banner'
component-tabs: ['']
no_single_tab: true
description: 'The integration of icons into the code varies by framework. To accommodate the diverse range of potential use cases, external icons can be integrated in addition to the existing icon set.'
---

import AddIconsPlayground from '@site/docs/autogenerated/playground/add-icons.mdx';

# Usage

The package @siemens/ix-icons offers a large set of icons. It also comes with the ix-icon component that displays them in your application. Additionally custom SVG icons (that are not part of the library) can be used.

As of iX version 3.0.0 not all available iX icons will be loaded automatically anymore. Only the icons actually used in the application will be part of the bundle to significantly reduce the overall bundle size. As a result, icons must now be imported explicitly.

## Icon usage in supported frameworks

### Angular

Provide all iX icons as asset folder via `angular.json`.

```json
"assets": [
  "src/favicon.ico",
  "src/assets",
  {
  "glob": "**/*.svg",
  "input": "node_modules/@siemens/ix-icons/svg",
  "output": "./svg"
  }
],
```

It is also possible to import individual icons without an asset folder via [addIcons](#reference-icons-by-name).

Then you can reference iX icons by name anywhere in your application.

```html
<ix-icon name="star" size="16"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="24"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="32"></ix-icon>
```

### Web components

```html
<ix-icon name="star" size="16"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="24"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="32"></ix-icon>
```

### React

```tsx
import { iconStar } from '@siemens/ix-icons/icons';

<IxIcon name={iconStar} size="16"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon name={iconStar} size="24"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon name={iconStar} size="32"></IxIcon>
```

### Vue

```tsx
import { iconStar } from '@siemens/ix-icons/icons';

<IxIcon :name="iconStar" size="16"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon :name="iconStar" size="24"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon :name="iconStar" size="32"></IxIcon>
```

## Reference icons by name

Although referencing icons by name (e.g. `<ix-icon name="star"><ix-icon>`) is still also possible, simply import all icons you want to display in your application via the `addIcons` method.

<AddIconsPlayground />

## Integrate external icons

### Technical requirements

- Supported icon format is SVG
- Each icon is a single SVG file, Sprites are not supported yet
- The icon has a size of 512✕512 (width, height and viewBox)
- All color information within the SVG will be ignored
- Remove any title attributes (`<title> ... </title>`) to make sure no unintentional tooltips appear on the icon
- For visual and formal requirements see guidelines tab above

```tsx
  <ix-icon name="./assets/my-icon.svg"></ix-icon>
  <ix-icon name="https://my.example.cdn.address/assets/my-icon.svg"></ix-icon>
```

### Internal SVG structure

The provided SVG icons are graphic resources whose code is mostly generated by design applications such as Figma, Sketch or Adobe Illustrator. The tools use different export routines, which can also change over time. We therefore cannot guarantee that the internal structure of an SVG will be preserved after updates – even if the icons remain visually the same.
