packages/documentation/docs/controls/_select_styleguide.md, before:

## Guidelines

A select component allows users to choose from a list of options. It supports single or multiple selections and the editable variant allows users to add new items. We typically use select components in forms, filters and settings where users need to choose from predefined options.

![Overview](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3647-6332&t=DtCmoFcLwhf7ke3S-4)

1. Label
2. Required indicator
3. Placeholder
4. Clear button
5. Open dropdown button
6. Container
7. Dropdown list
8. List header
9. Selected list item
10. Editable mode (add new items)

### Options

- **Label:** See [form field](./forms/forms-field.md).
- **Placeholder:** Use a placeholder to provide information about what to enter or additional relevant context while the input field is empty. We typically use a placeholder when the label is not visible or we need to provide additional context.
- **Helper text:** See [form field](./forms/forms-field.md).
- **Feedback text:** See [form field](./forms/forms-field.md).
- **Show clear button:** Select components can have a dedicated button to easily clear the selection. Hide the button when offering users other ways to reset, e.g. a default item like "none", or if you aim for simplified keyboard accessibility.
- **List header:** Use a header to provide additional context or instructions about the items to help users understand the choices better.
  - **Hide list header:** Hide the header of the dropdown list when not required.
- **Information for no matches:** Set a message to be displayed when no item matches the inserted text.
- **Editable:** When enabled, users can add new items to the list.
- **Multiselect:** Allow users to select multiple items from the list.
- **Item label:** Set a short and concise label for dropdown items.
- **Selected item:** Mark selected items in the dropdown with a check mark.

### Behavior in context

- **Validation:** See [validation](./forms/forms-validation.mdx).
- **Interaction:**
  - Click or Enter key on button opens dropdown list.
  - Typing in the input field filters the dropdown list.
  - Arrow keys navigate within the dropdown list.
  - Click or Enter selects a highlighted list item.
  - Escape key closes dropdown list and returns to the originally selected value.
- **Overflow:**
  - The text in an input field is truncated with the length of the container.
  - On the multiselect, the selected items break into a second line and then show a scrollbar if it extends beyond two lines.
  - The dropdown list is scrollable when the list exceeds the container height. Its width is defined by the longest item.
- **Alignment:** Selects are always aligned to the left, while right alignment is reserved exclusively for [number inputs](input-number.mdx).

### States

The select field has five states: default, hover, focused, disabled and read-only. In the disabled state, the input field is displayed without offering any user interaction.

![Field states](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3960-760&t=MWpyPDZDK5B531n9-4)

### Dos and Don’ts

- Do consider performance when loading an extensive list of items
- Do use the select component when there is a finite list of items available to avoid manual input errors or duplicates
- Do sort items logically, e.g. alphabetically or numerically
- Don't use selects for binary choices, like yes and no, use [radio buttons](radio.mdx), [checkboxes](checkbox.mdx) or [toggles](toggle.mdx) instead
- Don't use selects for navigational or search patterns, use [category filters](category-filter.md) or [search fields](expanding-search.md) instead
- Don't combine several data attributes in an item label, use [tables](html-grid.mdx) or [event lists](event-list.md) with a search functionality instead

![Don't combine data attributes](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3978-800&t=MWpyPDZDK5B531n9-4)

### Related patterns

- [Form field](./forms/forms-field.md)
- [Validation](./forms/forms-validation.mdx)
- [Layout](./forms/forms-layout.md)
- [Input](input.mdx)
- [Radio button](radio.mdx)
- [Checkbox](checkbox.mdx)
- [Toggle](toggle.mdx)
- [Date input](input-date.mdx)

Commit message:

fix(core/select): prevent list items to expand beyond screen width and add dropdown width properties (#1669)

packages/documentation/docs/controls/_select_styleguide.md, after:

## Guidelines

A select component allows users to choose from a list of options. It supports single or multiple selections and the editable variant allows users to add new items. We typically use select components in forms, filters and settings where users need to choose from predefined options.

![Overview](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3647-6332&t=DtCmoFcLwhf7ke3S-4)

1. Label
2. Required indicator
3. Placeholder
4. Clear button
5. Open dropdown button
6. Container
7. Dropdown list
8. List header
9. Selected list item
10. Editable mode (add new items)

### Options

- **Label:** See [form field](./forms/forms-field.md).
- **Placeholder:** Use a placeholder to provide information about what to enter or additional relevant context while the input field is empty. We typically use a placeholder when the label is not visible or we need to provide additional context.
- **Helper text:** See [form field](./forms/forms-field.md).
- **Feedback text:** See [form field](./forms/forms-field.md).
- **Show clear button:** Select components can have a dedicated button to easily clear the selection. Hide the button when offering users other ways to reset, e.g. a default item like "none", or if you aim for simplified keyboard accessibility.
- **List header:** Use a header to provide additional context or instructions about the items to help users understand the choices better.
  - **Hide list header:** Hide the header of the dropdown list when not required.
- **Information for no matches:** Set a message to be displayed when no item matches the inserted text.
- **Editable:** When enabled, users can add new items to the list.
- **Multiselect:** Allow users to select multiple items from the list.
- **Item label:** Set a short and concise label for dropdown items.
- **Selected item:** Mark selected items in the dropdown with a check mark.

### Behavior in context

- **Validation:** See [validation](./forms/forms-validation.mdx).
- **Interaction:**
  - Click or Enter key on button opens dropdown list.
  - Typing in the input field filters the dropdown list.
  - Arrow keys navigate within the dropdown list.
  - Click or Enter selects a highlighted list item.
  - Escape key closes dropdown list and returns to the originally selected value.
- **Overflow:**
  - The text in an input field is truncated with the length of the container.
  - On the multiselect, the selected items break into a second line and then show a scrollbar if it extends beyond two lines.
  - The dropdown list is scrollable when the list exceeds the container height. Its width is defined by the longest item. The maximum width of the dropdown list is set to 100% by default. Use the properties `dropdownWidth` and `dropdownMaxWidth` to customize the dimensions.
- **Alignment:** Selects are always aligned to the left, while right alignment is reserved exclusively for [number inputs](input-number.mdx).

### States

The select field has five states: default, hover, focused, disabled and read-only. In the disabled state, the input field is displayed without offering any user interaction.

![Field states](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3960-760&t=MWpyPDZDK5B531n9-4)

### Dos and Don’ts

- Do consider performance when loading an extensive list of items
- Do use the select component when there is a finite list of items available to avoid manual input errors or duplicates
- Do sort items logically, e.g. alphabetically or numerically
- Don't use selects for binary choices, like yes and no, use [radio buttons](radio.mdx), [checkboxes](checkbox.mdx) or [toggles](toggle.mdx) instead
- Don't use selects for navigational or search patterns, use [category filters](category-filter.md) or [search fields](expanding-search.md) instead
- Don't combine several data attributes in an item label, use [tables](html-grid.mdx) or [event lists](event-list.md) with a search functionality instead

![Don't combine data attributes](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?node-id=3978-800&t=MWpyPDZDK5B531n9-4)

### Related patterns

- [Form field](./forms/forms-field.md)
- [Validation](./forms/forms-validation.mdx)
- [Layout](./forms/forms-layout.md)
- [Input](input.mdx)
- [Radio button](radio.mdx)
- [Checkbox](checkbox.mdx)
- [Toggle](toggle.mdx)
- [Date input](input-date.mdx)
