packages/documentation/docs/mobile.md, before:

import DevicePreview from '@site/src/components/DevicePreview';

# Mobile Experience

Siemens Industrial Experience can easily be utilized for creating mobile applications jointly with web technology based approaches. With the help of our design system you will be able to swiftly build the user interface of your mobile web app or hybrid app.

## Demo App

Check out our hybrid example application using Ionic, React and Siemens Industrial Experience:

<br />
<DevicePreview />
<br />

Please find the repository with all the source code of the demo application here: <br />
[Ionic React Test App on GitHub](https://github.com/siemens/ix/blob/main/test-apps/ionic-test-app).

## Mobile App Development

There are several different ways to create applications for mobile devices. Native apps are tailored for a particular platform like iOS or Android and usually need to be developed in a specific way for every target platform seperately. Other approaches like hybrid apps are based on web technologies while targeting multiple platforms using a single codebase.

Web applications can be optimized for mobile devices without any significant technological changes. Several paradigms and patterns including: mobile-first design, responsive design, and adaptive design help developers to implement apps providing a seamless user experience across various devices and screen sizes. Disadvantages of mobile web apps include: 

- Lack of offline capabilities
- Limited possibilities for distribution (e.g. via app stores)
- Limited options for the integration of native features (e.g. push notifications)

### Hybrid Apps

The aspects described above are reasons to consider hybrid applications in order to provide a sublime mobile user experience and also benefit from the advantages of native applications.
Hybrid apps are built using web technologies but run inside a native container providing access to device APIs, allowing native features of the device's operating system and hardware to be used. A variety of frameworks for building hybrid mobile applications are available today. Some provide user interface components for a closer integration with the different operating systems designs. For a more consistent user experience it can be benefitial to favor the Siemens Industrial Experience components over the the frameworks UI components.

## Using Ionic

To implement a mobile application you as a developer has many possibilities on choose a framework. In this example we are using Ionic + React to implement a mobile application which can be installed on your mobile device.

### Theming Ionic

The first challenge is to provide a theme mapping between Siemens Industrial Experience and Ionic Framework.

Ionic uses CSS custom properties (variables) same as Siemens Industrial Experience, which makes is easy to map between the both theming systems.

Here is an example of a default theme mapping [Repository Link](https://github.com/siemens/ix/blob/main/test-apps/ionic-test-app/src/theme/variables.css).

### Define safe areas

Most modern mobile phones do not have a simple rectangle display, sometimes it has a radius sometimes it has a "notch" like the Iphone.

To handle this areas there are existing [environment variables](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/env#safe-area-inset-top) called `safe-area-inset`
You has an developer has to define these safe-areas to help the `ix-application` to layout the frame of your application correctly.

```css
--ix-safe-area-inset-top: env(safe-area-inset-top);
--ix-safe-area-inset-right: env(safe-area-inset-right);
--ix-safe-area-inset-bottom: env(safe-area-inset-bottom);
--ix-safe-area-inset-left: env(safe-area-inset-left);
```

After you have defined the global `--ix-safe-area-inset-*` you need to define some special variables depending on your Hardware. In our case we have an Iphone with the Notch on top.
Depending on the orientation of the of your device you need to ajust the safe-areas of some components e.g the `ix-menu`.

```css
body[data-screen-orientation='landscape-primary'] {
  /*
  * If the device is in landscape-primary orientation,
  * we need to adjust the safe areas for the menu.
  * The data-screen-orientation attribute is added by the main.ts file
  */
  --ix-application-menu-safe-area-left: var(--ix-safe-area-inset-left);
}
```

The given css selector `body[data-screen-orientation='landscape-primary']` is not provided via the ionic framework.
A good point to add this information is the `main.ts` file of your project. You can chose between the capacitor plugin [`@capacitor/screen-orientation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/screen-orientation) or the browser api [`ScreenOrientation`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ScreenOrientation)

```tsx
import { ScreenOrientation } from '@capacitor/screen-orientation';

async function screenOrientation() {
  const { type } = await ScreenOrientation.orientation();
  window.document.body.setAttribute('data-screen-orientation', type);

  ScreenOrientation.addListener('screenOrientationChange', ({ type }) => {
    window.document.body.setAttribute('data-screen-orientation', type);
  });
}

screenOrientation();

root.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <App />
  </React.StrictMode>
);
```

After this changes are applied your application frame should respect all areas of your device which is not easy accessible.

Please be aware to check if the content pages of your application are respect these areas also. You can use the defined variables here as well.

```css
.my-content-space {
  margin-top: var(--ix-safe-area-inset-top);
}
```

### Application frame layout

By default the [Application Frame](./controls/application-frame/application.md) comes with tree default layouts `sm`, `md`, `lg`. These layout are selected automatically depending on your hardware display size.

If you are planning to implement a App for Mobile and Tablet (e.g Iphone or Ipad) it could be necessary to configure the layouts which the application frame can pick from.

In case of an IPad and IPhone application you should typically choose `sm` and `md`.

```tsx
const Application = () => {
  return (
    <IonApp>
      ...
      <IxApplication breakpoints={breakpoints}>...</IxApplication>
      ...
    </IonApp>
  );
};
```

As mentation above it makes sometimes sense to adapt the layouts (breakpoints) depending of the hardware.
For example the layout `md` will be chosen if you have a Iphone in landscape orientation and a Ipad in portrait orientation.
Ionic provides some [utility functions](https://ionicframework.com/docs/react/platform#platforms) which helps you to decide which layout you should choose.

```tsx
const ipad = [`sm`, 'md', 'lg'];
const iphone = [`sm`];

let breakpoints = isPlatform('ipad') ? ipad : iphone;

const Application = () => {
  return (
    <IonApp>
      ...
      <IxApplication breakpoints={breakpoints}>...</IxApplication>
      ...
    </IonApp>
  );
};
```

## User experience considerations

Regardless of the technology there are diverse aspects to take into consideration when developing applications for mobile devices:

Commit message:

docs(mobile): add information and refactoring

packages/documentation/docs/mobile.md, after:

import DevicePreview from '@site/src/components/DevicePreview';

# Mobile Experience

Siemens Industrial Experience can easily be utilized for creating mobile applications jointly with web technology based approaches. With the help of our design system you will be able to swiftly build the user interface of your mobile web app or hybrid app.

## Demo App

Check out our hybrid example application using Ionic, React and Siemens Industrial Experience:

<br/>
<DevicePreview />
<br/>

Please find the repository with all the source code of the demo application here: [Ionic React Test App on GitHub](https://github.com/siemens/ix/blob/main/test-apps/ionic-test-app).

Keep on reading to learn more about how this works and how to implement it yourself.

## Mobile App Development

There are several different ways to create applications for mobile devices. Native apps are tailored for a particular platform like iOS or Android and usually need to be developed in a specific way for every target platform seperately. Other approaches like hybrid apps are based on web technologies while targeting multiple platforms using a single codebase.

Web applications can be optimized for mobile devices without any significant technological changes. Several paradigms and patterns including: mobile-first design, responsive design, and adaptive design help developers to implement apps providing a seamless user experience across various devices and screen sizes. Disadvantages of mobile web apps include: 

- Lack of offline capabilities
- Limited possibilities for distribution (e.g. via app stores)
- Limited options for the integration of native features (e.g. push notifications)

### Hybrid Apps

The aspects described above are reasons to consider hybrid applications in order to provide a sublime mobile user experience and also benefit from the advantages of native applications.
Hybrid apps are built using web technologies but run inside a native container providing access to device APIs, allowing native features of the device's operating system and hardware to be used. A variety of frameworks for building hybrid mobile applications are available today. Some provide user interface components for a closer integration with the different operating systems designs. For a more consistent user experience it can be benefitial to favor the Siemens Industrial Experience components over the the frameworks UI components.

## Using Ionic

To implement a mobile application you as a developer has many possibilities on choose a framework. In this example we are using Ionic + React to implement a mobile application which can be installed on your mobile device.

### Theming Ionic

The first challenge is to provide a theme mapping between Siemens Industrial Experience and Ionic Framework.

Ionic uses CSS custom properties (variables) same as Siemens Industrial Experience, which makes is easy to map between the both theming systems.

Here is an example of a default theme mapping [Repository Link](https://github.com/siemens/ix/blob/main/test-apps/ionic-test-app/src/theme/variables.css).

### Define safe areas

Most modern mobile phones do not have a simple rectangle display, sometimes it has a radius sometimes it has a "notch" like the Iphone.

To handle this areas there are existing [environment variables](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/env#safe-area-inset-top) called `safe-area-inset`
You has an developer has to define these safe-areas to help the `ix-application` to layout the frame of your application correctly.

```css
--ix-safe-area-inset-top: env(safe-area-inset-top);
--ix-safe-area-inset-right: env(safe-area-inset-right);
--ix-safe-area-inset-bottom: env(safe-area-inset-bottom);
--ix-safe-area-inset-left: env(safe-area-inset-left);
```

After you have defined the global `--ix-safe-area-inset-*` you need to define some special variables depending on your Hardware. In our case we have an Iphone with the Notch on top.
Depending on the orientation of the of your device you need to ajust the safe-areas of some components e.g the `ix-menu`.

```css
body[data-screen-orientation='landscape-primary'] {
  /*
  * If the device is in landscape-primary orientation,
  * we need to adjust the safe areas for the menu.
  * The data-screen-orientation attribute is added by the main.ts file
  */
  --ix-application-menu-safe-area-left: var(--ix-safe-area-inset-left);
}
```

The given css selector `body[data-screen-orientation='landscape-primary']` is not provided via the ionic framework.
A good point to add this information is the `main.ts` file of your project. You can chose between the capacitor plugin [`@capacitor/screen-orientation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/screen-orientation) or the browser api [`ScreenOrientation`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ScreenOrientation)

```tsx
import { ScreenOrientation } from '@capacitor/screen-orientation';

async function screenOrientation() {
  const { type } = await ScreenOrientation.orientation();
  window.document.body.setAttribute('data-screen-orientation', type);

  ScreenOrientation.addListener('screenOrientationChange', ({ type }) => {
    window.document.body.setAttribute('data-screen-orientation', type);
  });
}

screenOrientation();

root.render(
  <React.StrictMode>
    <App />
  </React.StrictMode>
);
```

After this changes are applied your application frame should respect all areas of your device which is not easy accessible.

Please be aware to check if the content pages of your application are respect these areas also. You can use the defined variables here as well.

```css
.my-content-space {
  margin-top: var(--ix-safe-area-inset-top);
}
```

### Application frame layout

By default the [Application Frame](./controls/application-frame/application.md) comes with tree default layouts `sm`, `md`, `lg`. These layout are selected automatically depending on your hardware display size.

If you are planning to implement a App for Mobile and Tablet (e.g Iphone or Ipad) it could be necessary to configure the layouts which the application frame can pick from.

In case of an IPad and IPhone application you should typically choose `sm` and `md`.

```tsx
const Application = () => {
  return (
    <IonApp>
      ...
      <IxApplication breakpoints={breakpoints}>...</IxApplication>
      ...
    </IonApp>
  );
};
```

As mentation above it makes sometimes sense to adapt the layouts (breakpoints) depending of the hardware.
For example the layout `md` will be chosen if you have a Iphone in landscape orientation and a Ipad in portrait orientation.
Ionic provides some [utility functions](https://ionicframework.com/docs/react/platform#platforms) which helps you to decide which layout you should choose.

```tsx
const ipad = [`sm`, 'md', 'lg'];
const iphone = [`sm`];

let breakpoints = isPlatform('ipad') ? ipad : iphone;

const Application = () => {
  return (
    <IonApp>
      ...
      <IxApplication breakpoints={breakpoints}>...</IxApplication>
      ...
    </IonApp>
  );
};
```

## User experience considerations

Regardless of the technology there are diverse aspects to take into consideration when developing applications for mobile devices:


### Responsive Web Design (RWD):

While Siemens Industrial Experience components are designed to handle various viewport sizes gracefully, it’s crucial to plan for smaller screens and different screen orientations in an early stage of the project. Adjusting the layout of your application or restructuring content based on the devices viewport is crucial for a mobile friendly experience. Also hiding certain information or entire components can be an effective way to achieve mobile responsiveness.

### Interaction

Users interact with mobile devices primarily through touch input. While our Web Components are designed to respond to touch events, it may be necessary to implement custom event listeners for touch interactions based on your specific use cases.

### Device-specific features:

Certain devices come with unique characteristics that must be considered during development (e.g. display "notch"). Not taking these into account can result in parts of the user interface being hidden or inaccessible.
