# Breaking changes v3

Here is a detailed overview of all breaking changes introduced in this major update of Siemens Industrial Experience.

## Remove package `@siemens/ix-icons` from `@siemens/ix` base library

Prior to version 3.0.0 of `@siemens/ix-icons` the entire icon set was loaded into the client by default, which caused unnecessary usage of bandwidth and memory.
Starting with version 3.0.0, icons can now be loaded individually, providing significant performance optimizations.
To enable individual icon loading, the @siemens/ix-icons package now requires manual bootstrapping.
Please refer to the [`@siemens/ix-icons`](https://github.com/siemens/ix-icons) repository for detailed installation instructions.

For usage with one of the framework wrappers (`@siemens/ix-angular`, `@siemens/ix-react` and `@siemens/ix-vue`) read the respective section below.

### Usage of icons inside `@siemens/ix-react` and `@siemens/ix-vue` changed

Icon imports by name (e.g. `<IxIcon name="star" />`) are no longer supported by default.

To import the icon, use the following statement:

```ts
import { iconStar } from '@siemens/ix-icons/icons';
```

Use the icon as attribute like this:

```html
React:
<IxIcon name="{iconStar}" />

Vue:
<IxIcon :name="iconStar" />
```

If you want to use the "legacy" style (`<IxIcon name="star" />`), you'll need to do some additional setup tasks.

Create a copy task to ensure that all icons from the `@siemens/ix-icons` package are available as a static resource. Below is an example of a vite configuration (build only) example:

```ts
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    react(),
    copy({
      verbose: true,
      targets: [
        {
          src: 'node_modules/@siemens/ix-icons/svg/*.svg',
          dest: 'public/svg',
        },
      ],
    }),
  ],
});
```

### Usage of icons inside `@siemens/ix-angular` changed

Copy iX icons into your project folder via `angular.json`.

```json
"assets": [
  "src/favicon.ico",
  "src/assets",
  {
  "glob": "**/*.svg",
  "input": "node_modules/@siemens/ix-icons/svg",
  "output": "./svg"
  }
],
```

Then you can reference iX icons by name anywhere in your application.

```html
<ix-icon name="star"></ix-icon>
```

To load individual icons you can also use the `addIcons` function during runtime:

```js
import { addIcons } from @siemens/ix-icons;
import { iconStar, iconStarFilled } from @siemens/ix-icons/icons;

addIcons({ iconStar, iconStarFilled });
```

```html
<ix-icon name="star"></ix-icon> <ix-icon name="star-filled"></ix-icon>
```

### Usage of icons in pure HTML

```html
<ix-icon name="star"></ix-icon>
```

### Custom asset path for icons

In order to be able to load custom icons, we need to configure the domain of the asset path. This can either be done via `meta`-tag or with the `setAssetPath`-function.

#### with `meta`-tag

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <!-- Some other tags -->
    <meta name="ix-icons:path" content="https://some-resource-domain" />
  </head>
  <body></body>
</html>
```

```html
<IxIcon name="star"></IxIcon>
```

Above code will fetch the SVG from `https://some-resource-domain/star.svg`

#### with `setAssetPath`-function

Make sure to call the `setAssetPath`-function before using the `IxIcon` component (e.g. in the main file).

```ts
import { setAssetPath } from '@siemens/ix-icons/components';

setAssetPath('https://some-resource-domain');
```

```html
<IxIcon name="star"></IxIcon>
```

Above code will fetch the SVG from `https://some-resource-domain/star.svg`

This will preload all icons without including the SVGs as assets, which results in a larger bundle size.
Therefore, this approach is **NOT recommended**.

## Change props to `@internal`:

The following component members marked as internal by comment have been changed to annotated as `@internal`:

- `ix-menu`: `enableMapExpand`
- `ix-menu-about`: `show`
- `ix-menu-about-news`: `expanded`
- `ix-menu-settings`: `show`
- `ix-dropdown-item`: `emitItemClick()`

## `Bootstrap` is not a `peerDependency` anymore

We are removing Bootstrap as a dependency to reduce the overall bundle size as well as to become more independent from third party CSS frameworks.
Of course you can still use Bootstrap together with @siemens/ix, but you need to add it to you project manually.

### HTML table classes `.table` and `.table-striped` are not based on Bootstrap anymore

IX still offers CSS classes to style HTML tables, but the names have changed:

- The class `.table` is now `.ix-table`.
- The class `.table-striped` is now `.ix-table-striped`.
  Please note that they are not based on Bootstrap anymore.
  If your tables rely on additional Bootstrap functionality (e.g. hoverable rows), you have to install Bootstrap on your own.

## Namespacing of standard HTML elements

We decided to add the prefix `ix-` to our global styles of standard HTML elements like `input`, `textarea` and `label`.

This ensures that you can use other CSS libraries alongside iX to prevent class collisions.

### `input`, `textarea` and `label`

To ensure that your styles are not broken after you update to v3, you have to provide the class `ix-form-control` to `input`, `textarea` and `label` elements.

Example:

Change

```html
<input type="text" /> <input type="text" class="form-control" />
```

to

```html
<input type="text" class="ix-form-control" /> <input type="text" class="ix-form-control" />
```

## Global style updates

### `input` width value changed

We changed the default width of the `input` element from `width: 100%` to `width: auto`

## Component updates

#### ix-action-card

- The `insight` and `notification` variants have been **replaced by** `outline` and `filled`.

#### ix-card

- The `insight` and `notification` variants have been **replaced by** `outline` and `filled`.

#### ix-chip

- The `color` property has been **replaced by** `chipColor`.

#### ix-date-picker

- Removed attributes: `individual`, and `eventDelimiter`.
- The `textSelectedDate` property has been **replaced by** `i18nDone`.
- The `done` event has been **replaced by** `dateSelect`.

#### ix-datetime-picker

- The `textSelectedDate` property has been **replaced by** `i18nDone`.
- The `done` event has been **replaced by** `dateSelect`.
- The `eventDelimiter` property has been removed.

#### ix-event-list

- The `color` attribute has been **replaced by** `itemColor`.

#### ix-icon-button

- The `color` attribute has been **replaced by** `iconColor`.
- Size `32` has been removed.

#### ix-menu

- Removed the `maxVisibleMenuItems` attribute.

#### ix-menu-item

- Removed the `tabIcon` attribute and replaced with icon.

#### ix-modal

- The `keyboard` attribute has been **replaced by** `closeOnEscape`.

#### ix-pill

- The `color` attribute has been **replaced by** `pillColor`.

#### ix-push-card

- The `insight` and `notification` variants have been **replaced by** `outline` and `filled`.

#### ix-select

- The `selectedIndices` attribute has been **replaced by** `value`.
- The `itemSelectionChange` event has been **replaced by** `valueChange`.

#### ix-select-item

- The `value` attribute type has been changed to `string`.

#### ix-time-picker

- Removed attributes: `individual` and `showTimeReference`.

#### ix-typography

- The `color` attribute has been **replaced by** `textColor`.
