# Breaking changes v4

Here is a detailed overview of all breaking changes introduced in this major update of Siemens Industrial Experience.

## `@siemens/ix-angular`

### Update peerDependencies to v20

Projects using `@siemens/ix-angular` must upgrade to Angular 20 before updating to this version.
Some APIs deprecated in previous Angular versions may have been removed; review the Angular 20 changelog for migration steps.
Ensure all third-party Angular libraries are compatible with v20 to avoid runtime issues.

## Component

### `i18n` attributes

Rename attribute names for all `i18n-*` properties.

New name:
From `i-1-8-n-my-attribute` to `i18n-my-attribute`.

Components:

- `ix-card-list`
- `ix-category-filter`
- `ix-datetime-picker`
- `ix-menu`
- `ix-menu-about-news`
- `ix-menu-avatar`
- `ix-pagination`
- `ix-select`
- `ix-update`

### ix-button and other button like components

Remove **outline** and **ghost** property. The properties are replaced 1:1 with new added variants:

| v3 variant | ghost | outline | **v4 variant**   |
| ---------- | ----- | ------- | ---------------- |
| primary    | false | false   | primary          |
| primary    | false | true    | secondary        |
| primary    | true  | false   | tertiary         |
| secondary  | false | false   | subtle-primary   |
| secondary  | false | true    | subtle-secondary |
| secondary  | true  | false   | subtle-tertiary  |
| danger     | false | false   | danger-primary   |
| danger     | false | true    | danger-secondary |
| danger     | true  | false   | danger-tertiary  |

### ix-application

- `min-width: 0` has been added to the content-area in `ix-application` to prevent the flex container from growing beyond the screen width. If you currently have implemented a workaround for this behavior your application's layout might be affected by this change.

### ix-menu-about-news

- Removed unused `offsetBottom` property. No migration required - this property had no effect and can be safely removed from your code.

## Theme

### Theme switcher

The **themeSwitcher**'s **setTheme** and **setVariant** methods no longer take a target parameter. Before this parameter was used to specify the target element to set/change the theme configurations on.
Now all configuration will be made on the HTML tag. Target did default to **document.documentElement** already.

Before:

```html
<body data-ix-theme="classic" data-ix-color-schema="dark">
  ..
</body>
```

```ts
themeSwitcher.setVariant('light', document.body);
```

After:

```html
<html data-ix-theme="classic" data-ix-color-schema="dark">
  ..
</html>
```

```ts
themeSwitcher.setVariant('light');
```

### ix-flip-tile

- Rename property `state` to `variant`
- Rename `FlipTileState` to `FlipTileVariant`
