packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/language/basics.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_title: Basics
title: Basics
---

import Guideline from '@site/src/components/Guideline';


The following sections contain advice we follow at Siemens to create our own products and includes common writing errors to avoid when creating industrial products and experiences.

### Style

- Use as few words as possible

- Use simple, specific, clear, and informative wording

- Use the same words and grammatical forms, lengths, and styles repeatedly

### Tone and voice

- Use natural, conversational language and not robotic, funny, cool or clever

- Address users in second-person (you) and use first-person plural for the application (we)

- Use gender-neutral language

- Use polite language

- Use 'please' and 'sorry' only when necessary, for something inconvenient or unplanned

- Use positive instead of negative framing

- Use positive contractions to avoid sounding too formal

- Avoid using negative contractions as they can appear too informal

<div class="d-flex flex-wrap">
<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='their, them, theirs, salesperson'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='his, hers, him, salesman'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Welcome to this application'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='Hey there!'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='X appears when detail view has selected events'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='X doesn’t appear if detail view has no selected events'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='cannot, will not'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='can’t, won’t'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='you’ll, we’ve'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='you will, we have'></Guideline>
</span>

</div>

### Length

- Use sentences only when necessary

- Use short words (3, 4, or 5 letters) instead of long words (8 or longer)

- Use short, scannable segments, not paragraphs

- Keep sentences under 25 words (average = 15 words)

- Keep titles under 65 characters (including spaces)

- Use info icons only when necessary: Icons cannot contain the same content as the UI

### Use of big and small letters (capitalization/casing)

- Capitalize the first letter of the first word in a title / sentence / tooltip / menu item / list item / button

- Capitalize proper nouns, i.e. places, organizations, tools, languages, products and things: Siemens, SIMATIC PCS myexpert, iOS, JavaScript, MindSphere

- Capitalize named app functions and UI elements: Go to Settings, Allocate users in User management, Press Ok

<div class="d-flex flex-wrap">
<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Go to Settings'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='Go To Settings'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Press OK'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='Press Ok'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Log in'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='LOG IN'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='For more information, see Siemens Industry Online Support.'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='For more information, see Siemens industry online support.'></Guideline>
</span>

</div>

### Common UX wording mistakes

<div class="d-flex flex-wrap">
<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='time zone'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='timezone'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='log file'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='logfile'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='log in (as an action)'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='login'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='login (as a noun)'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='log in'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='equipment'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='equipments'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='feedback'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='feedbacks'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='training'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='trainings'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='current'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='actual'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='avoid "shall"'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='user shall manage users'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Siemens has'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='Siemens have'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='34 million / 35 billion'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='34’ / 35“'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='34 million'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='34 millions'></Guideline>
</span>

</div>

Commit message:

docs: add intro text to each page

packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/language/basics.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Basics
title: UX Writing Basics
doc-type: 'component'
component-tabs: ['']
no_single_tab: true
description: "Dive into the fundamental principles of UX writing, where you'll learn how to create text that enhances user experience by being clear, concise, and user-friendly. This section lays the groundwork for all your UX writing endeavors."
---

import Guideline from '@site/src/components/Guideline';

#

## Style

- Use as few words as possible

- Use simple, specific, clear, and informative wording

- Use the same words and grammatical forms, lengths, and styles repeatedly

## Tone and voice

- Use natural, conversational language and not robotic, funny, cool or clever

- Address users in second-person (you) and use first-person plural for the application (we)

- Use gender-neutral language

- Use polite language

- Use 'please' and 'sorry' only when necessary, for something inconvenient or unplanned

- Use positive instead of negative framing

- Use positive contractions to avoid sounding too formal

- Avoid using negative contractions as they can appear too informal

<div class="d-flex flex-wrap">
<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='their, them, theirs, salesperson'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='his, hers, him, salesman'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Welcome to this application'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='Hey there!'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='X appears when detail view has selected events'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='X doesn’t appear if detail view has no selected events'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='cannot, will not'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='can’t, won’t'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='you’ll, we’ve'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='you will, we have'></Guideline>
</span>

</div>

## Length

- Use sentences only when necessary

- Use short words (3, 4, or 5 letters) instead of long words (8 or longer)

- Use short, scannable segments, not paragraphs

- Keep sentences under 25 words (average = 15 words)

- Keep titles under 65 characters (including spaces)

- Use info icons only when necessary: Icons cannot contain the same content as the UI

## Use of big and small letters (capitalization/casing)

- Capitalize the first letter of the first word in a title / sentence / tooltip / menu item / list item / button

- Capitalize proper nouns, i.e. places, organizations, tools, languages, products and things: Siemens, SIMATIC PCS myexpert, iOS, JavaScript, MindSphere

- Capitalize named app functions and UI elements: Go to Settings, Allocate users in User management, Press Ok

<div class="d-flex flex-wrap">
<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Go to Settings'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='Go To Settings'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Press OK'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='Press Ok'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Log in'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='LOG IN'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='For more information, see Siemens Industry Online Support.'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='For more information, see Siemens industry online support.'></Guideline>
</span>

</div>

## Common UX wording mistakes

<div class="d-flex flex-wrap">
<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='time zone'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='timezone'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='log file'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='logfile'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='log in (as an action)'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='login'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='login (as a noun)'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='log in'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='equipment'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='equipments'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='feedback'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='feedbacks'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='training'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='trainings'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='current'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='actual'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='avoid "shall"'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='user shall manage users'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='Siemens has'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='Siemens have'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='34 million / 35 billion'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='34’ / 35“'></Guideline>
</span>

<span class="m-2">
<Guideline do label='34 million'></Guideline>
<Guideline do={false} label='34 millions'></Guideline>
</span>

</div>
