packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/language/proper-nouns.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_title: Proper nouns
title: Proper nouns
---

import Guideline from '@site/src/components/Guideline';


### Capitalize proper nouns

- A proper noun is the name of a particular person, place, or object that is spelled with a capital letter

- Examples of proper nouns in English are Jennie, Edinburgh, and Digital Enterprise Labs

- In contrast, a common noun is a noun that is the name of a group of similar things, such as "pump" or "valve", and not of a single person, place, or thing and is not capitalized

- In the context of industrial applications, proper nouns might be company and product names, tools or existing technical and legal terms

- Avoid making up your own proper nouns, e.g. ball valve instead of Ball Valve

### Siemens proper nouns

- Siemens Corporate Information

- Siemens Privacy Notice

- Siemens Terms of Use

- Siemens Cookie Notice

- Siemens Digital ID

- SIMATIC PCS myExpert, iOS, JavaScript

- Siemens Industry Online Support

- Siemens Service & Support

### Technical terms

- Operating systems: iOS, Android, Windows, Linux

- Programming languages: JavaScript, etc.

- Industrial engineering: P&ID diagram, etc.

Commit message:

docs: add intro text to each page

packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/language/proper-nouns.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Proper nouns
title: Proper nouns
doc-type: 'component'
component-tabs: ['']
no_single_tab: true
description: 'Learn the guidelines for using proper nouns correctly in your text. This subchapter will help you understand when and how to capitalize names, brands, and other specific terms to maintain consistency and professionalism.'
---

import Guideline from '@site/src/components/Guideline';

#

## Capitalize proper nouns

- A proper noun is the name of a particular person, place, or object that is spelled with a capital letter

- Examples of proper nouns in English are Jennie, Edinburgh, and Digital Enterprise Labs

- In contrast, a common noun is a noun that is the name of a group of similar things, such as "pump" or "valve", and not of a single person, place, or thing and is not capitalized

- In the context of industrial applications, proper nouns might be company and product names, tools or existing technical and legal terms

- Avoid making up your own proper nouns, e.g. ball valve instead of Ball Valve

## Siemens proper nouns

- Siemens Corporate Information

- Siemens Privacy Notice

- Siemens Terms of Use

- Siemens Cookie Notice

- Siemens Digital ID

- SIMATIC PCS myExpert, iOS, JavaScript

- Siemens Industry Online Support

- Siemens Service & Support

## Technical terms

- Operating systems: iOS, Android, Windows, Linux

- Programming languages: JavaScript, etc.

- Industrial engineering: P&ID diagram, etc.
