packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/_theme-switching_styleguide.md, before:

# Changing Theme Variables

![Changing theme variables](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=2232-101&mode=design&t=C6IjeY71MP4uA7vZ-4)

Follow these steps to modify the colors and other values of a theme within the Figma Siemens Brand library:  

1. Import the "iX Foundation Brand" file into your Figma workspace.
2. In the top-right corner of the Figma interface, you'll find a button labeled "Open settings" with a settings icon. Click on it to open the variables dialog.
3. Within the variables dialog, navigate to the desired collection, such as the "iX Colors" collection located at the top-left corner.
4. From there, you can easily change the values of the variables to adjust the appearance of the theme.

The different themes are organized into columns, allowing you to switch between them effortlessly.

# Selecting a Theme for Designing

When working with the Figma Siemens Brand library, you can apply a theme to either an entire page or an individual element, such as a frame or component:  

![Applying a theme](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=2232-192&mode=design&t=C6IjeY71MP4uA7vZ-4)
## Applying a Theme to a whole Page

Ensure that no elements are selected on the page. If any elements are selected, press the "Esc" key to deselect them.
1. In the right panel, you'll find a button with a hexagon symbol on the right side of the "Page" section. Click on it to open the theme selection dropdown.
2. From the dropdown, you can select the desired theme colors to apply them to the entire page.  

## Applying a Theme to an Element

Select the specific element, such as a frame or component, to which you want to apply a theme.
1. In the right panel, you'll find a button with a hexagon symbol on the right side of the "Layer" section. Click on it to open the theme selection dropdown.
2. From the dropdown, you can choose the desired theme colors to apply them to the selected element. 

Remember, when you apply a theme to an individual element, it will override the page-level theme.

For more information see the official [Figma documentation](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/15339657135383-Guide-to-variables-in-Figma).

Commit message:

docs(figma-variables): update section (#1220)
Co-authored-by: tokyojen <143795032+tokyojen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Lukas Maurer <lukas.maurer@siemens.com>

packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/_theme-switching_styleguide.md, after:

# Selecting a theme for designing

When working with our Figma library, you can apply a theme to either an entire page or an individual element, such as a frame or component:

![Applying a theme](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=2232-192&mode=design&t=C6IjeY71MP4uA7vZ-4)
## Applying one theme to a whole page

1. First ensure there are no selected elements on the page by pressing the "Esc" key to deselect them.
2. Click the button with the hexagon in the right panel on the right side of the "Page" section to open the theme selection dropdown.
3. Select from the dropdown the desired theme colors to apply to the entire page.  

## Applying one theme to an element

1. Select the specific element (such as a frame or component) you want to apply a theme to.
2. Click the button with the hexagon in the right panel on the right side of the "Layer" section to open the theme selection dropdown.
3. Select from the dropdown the desired theme colors to apply to the selected element. 

Note: When applying a theme to an individual element, it overrides the page-level theme.

For more information see the official [Figma documentation](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/15339657135383-Guide-to-variables-in-Figma).

# Changing theme variables

![Changing theme variables](https://www.figma.com/file/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Pattern-Illustrations?type=design&node-id=2232-101&mode=design&t=C6IjeY71MP4uA7vZ-4)

If want to adapt the classic theme to your own brand design, follow these steps to modify the colors and other theme values within the Figma library:

1. Import the iX Foundation into your Figma workspace.
2. In the top-right corner of the Figma interface, click the button labeled "Open settings" with a settings icon to open the variables dialog.
3. Within the variables dialog, navigate to the desired collection, such as the "iX Colors" collection located at the top-left corner.
4. From there, change the values of the variables to adjust the appearance of the theme.
