packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/overview.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
title: Guidelines overview
doc-type: 'banner'
component-tabs: ['']
no_single_tab: true
description: 'Our guidelines section provides comprehensive information to help you create user-friendly and consistent designs. This section covers various aspects of design, ensuring that your work meets high standards of accessibility, responsiveness, and usability.'
---

# 

![Overview](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=4993-26&t=Ao9TQLHByFIqV01t-4)

## Accessibility

Accessibility ensures that digital products are usable by everyone, including people with disabilities. It is crucial for creating inclusive solutions that meet diverse needs and comply with standards like WCAG, enhancing the overall user experience. Learn how to make your designs accessible to all users. [Read more](./accessibility)

## Responsive design

Use Siemens Industrial Experience to create mobile applications jointly with web technology based approaches easily. With the help of our design system you are able to swiftly build the user interface of your mobile web app or hybrid app. Discover best practices for creating designs that work seamlessly across different devices and screen sizes. [Read more](./mobile/mobile-app-dev)

## UX writing

The writing style guide provides support for content designers, writers, designers and developers at Siemens. These are the guidelines we use as Siemens to create consistent and clear products within industrial contexts and includes common writing errors to avoid. [Read more](./language/writing-style-guide-getting-started)

## Conversational design

Explore guidelines for designing intuitive and engaging chatbot interactions. [Read more](./conversational-design/getting-started)

## CLI design

Learn how to create consistent and clear commands that can be easily understood by our customers. [Read more](./cli/getting-started)

Commit message:

docs: design principles (#1835)
Co-authored-by: flxlst09 <felix.leist@siemens.com>
Co-authored-by: Lukas Maurer <lukas.maurer@siemens.com>

packages/documentation/docs/guidelines/overview.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
title: Guidelines overview
doc-type: 'banner'
component-tabs: ['']
no_single_tab: true
description: 'Our guidelines section provides comprehensive information to help you create user-friendly and consistent designs. This section covers various aspects of design, ensuring that your work meets high standards of accessibility, responsiveness, and usability.'
---

# 

![Overview](https://www.figma.com/design/wEptRgAezDU1z80Cn3eZ0o/iX-Documentation-illustrations?node-id=5109-312&t=J27iSZ4gEcgMGpEV-4)

## Design principles
Elevating user experience with Industrial Experience design principles. In the fast-paced world of industrial technology, design principles serve as the cornerstone of innovation, guiding us to create seamless and intuitive applications. They provide designers and developers with a robust framework to make informed design decisions, ensuring each product aligns with our standards and brand identity. [Read more](./designprinciples)

## Accessibility

Accessibility ensures that digital products are usable by everyone, including people with disabilities. It is crucial for creating inclusive solutions that meet diverse needs and comply with standards like WCAG, enhancing the overall user experience. Learn how to make your designs accessible to all users. [Read more](./accessibility)

## Responsive design

Use Siemens Industrial Experience to create mobile applications jointly with web technology based approaches easily. With the help of our design system you are able to swiftly build the user interface of your mobile web app or hybrid app. Discover best practices for creating designs that work seamlessly across different devices and screen sizes. [Read more](./mobile/mobile-app-dev)

## UX writing

The writing style guide provides support for content designers, writers, designers and developers at Siemens. These are the guidelines we use as Siemens to create consistent and clear products within industrial contexts and includes common writing errors to avoid. [Read more](./language/writing-style-guide-getting-started)

## Conversational design

Explore guidelines for designing intuitive and engaging chatbot interactions. [Read more](./conversational-design/getting-started)

## CLI design

Learn how to create consistent and clear commands that can be easily understood by our customers. [Read more](./cli/getting-started)
