import Icons from '@site/src/components/Icons';

## Development

The package ```@siemens/ix-icons``` offers a large set of icons.
It also comes with the ```ix-icon``` component that displays them in your application.
Additionally custom SVG icons (that are not part of the library) can be used.

As of iX version 3.0.0 not all available iX icons will be loaded automatically anymore.
Only the icons actually used in an app will be part of the bundle to save bandwidth and memory.
Therefor icons need to be imported explicitly.

### Usage

#### Angular

Use the 'addIcon' function to load individual icons once during bootstrapping.
TODO (IX-2072): Add real code example

```js
addIcon('star')
```

Alternatively the whole icon set can be loaded via `angular.json`.
Keep in mind that loading all icons can have a negative impact on the performance of your application and is therefor not recommended.

```json
"assets": [
  "src/favicon.ico",
  "src/assets",
  {
  "glob": "**/*.svg",
  "input": "node_modules/@siemens/ix-icons/svg",
  "output": "./svg"
  }
],
```

```html
<ix-icon name="star" size="16"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="24"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="32"></ix-icon>
```

#### React

```html
import { iconStar } from '@siemens/ix-icons/icons';

<IxIcon name="{iconStar}" size="16"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon name="{iconStar}" size="24"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon name="{iconStar}" size="32"></IxIcon>
```

#### Web components

TODO: Add sample code that loads icons

```html
<ix-icon name="star" size="16"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="24"></ix-icon>
<ix-icon name="star" size="32"></ix-icon>
```

#### Vue

```html
import { iconStar } from '@siemens/ix-icons/icons';

<IxIcon name="{iconStar}" size="16"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon name="{iconStar}" size="24"></IxIcon>
<IxIcon name="{iconStar}" size="32"></IxIcon>
```

### Integrate external icons

#### Technical requirements

- Supported icon format is SVG
- Each icon is a single SVG file, Sprites are not supported yet
- The icon has a size of 512✕512 (width, height and viewBox)
- All color information within the SVG will be ignored
- Remove any title attributes (`<title> ... </title>`) to make sure no unintentional tooltips appear on the icon
- For visual and formal requirements see guidelines tab above

```tsx
  <ix-icon name="./assets/my-icon.svg"></ix-icon>
  <ix-icon name="https://my.example.cdn.address/assets/my-icon.svg"></ix-icon>
```

#### Internal SVG structure

The provided SVG icons are graphic resources whose code is mostly generated by design applications such as Figma, Sketch or Adobe Illustrator. The tools use different export routines, which can also change over time. We therefore cannot guarantee that the internal structure of an SVG will be preserved after updates – even if the icons remain visually the same.

### Icon library

<Icons></Icons>
